Max Planck, the German physicist who solved the BlackBerry dilemma in nine or five, was then working
at his dissertation thesis.
He solved the problem by introducing two fundamental and revolutionary hypotheses into the description
of the black body model.
First of all, he proposed to replace the arbitrary energy value of each electromagnetic mode or harmonic
oscillator with integer multiples of the first mode.
Energy recall from the previous lecture, how standing waves can exist only at specific wavelength.
That is only for specific frequencies.
Not every kind of electro electromagnetic waves can be contained in a cavity in stationary mode, but
only those which match the right frequencies.
And if you go back to the graphics and the animations that they've shown you in the previous lecture,
you will realize how the second mode has half the wavelength, which means twice the frequency of the
first note.
The third mode has one third of the wavelength.
That is three times the frequency still of the first note and so on, which implies that in general,
the frequency of the end smolt standing wave is eight times the frequency of the first mode.
Plunk posited also that there is a direct, linear, linear relationship between these ends frequency
and the end energy state of the ends, Mote expressed as the following formula shows with H being the
Planck's constant and which which value is a very tiny number, six times six point six to six times
ten to the power minus 34.
Drool over helps or hurts in English.
Joule is the energy unit in jail in July and as we already saw, Hertz is the frequency unit.
It is a value, the Planck's constant is a value which is not predicted by any theory, but is just
given by nature and must be measured as the mass of an electron or proton or the gravitational strength
of a given mass.
The gravitational constant, these are values that we don't.
Obtained from our series, you must measure directly because they are as they are and who know?
Nobody knows why.
This little and simple relation, which connects the energy of an electromagnetic wave sending wave
in the cavity with its oscillating frequency is extremely important in quantum physics.
Moreover, note how this means also that there is a mode of minimum frequency that is, as we said,
the first mode below which no other mode can exist with lower frequency.
What therefore, this famous equation tells us also is that the electromagnetic field in the black body
cavity must be composed by many molds which take energy values, such as it stands now two times H2O,
three times H2O, etc., but cannot have any value in between, such as one point five H or two point
seven, eight, etc..
The electromagnetic moulds in the cavity must appear, therefore in energy steps of.
Energy.
Difference age, no, with no the frequency of the first mode, and which is given only by the distance,
determined only by the distance and geometric structure of the cavity, and any value in between is
not allowed to exist.
Therefore, despite being the cavity filled with an astronomical number of moles, none of it can have
an energy less than a minimum energy H2O and which is called the Ground State Energy.
This is a typical aspect of quantum theory, energy appears in Quanta, and there does not exist a state
of zero energy.
Every quantum system, such as, for example, an atom, has a non-zero ground state energy, as we
will see also in more detail later.
It may be said also that modern textbooks associate the end modes in the cavity, also to end particles
of electromagnetic energy eight times now called photons.
Historically, however, as we shall see, this concept and the word photon itself was introduced only
later by Einstein describing the photoelectric effect.
Actually, at this point, until now, there is no need to introduce light particles, at least not
at this stage.
Then the idea to replace continues with discrete energy modes was not entirely a novel idea.
It was already well known that atoms absorb and emit light only with specific wavelengths and not throughout
a continuous spectrum.
The spectral analysis of elements.
In fact, dates back to 1861 when Gustaaf about yourself and about a billion Bonson realized how every
element emits and absorbs light only at very specific wavelengths.
Each element has its own spectrum, which is like characteristic optical fingerprint.
More generally, every element or substance, every type of atom or molecule resonate only at certain
frequencies and which can be visualized with their spectral lines.
For example, here you can see the emission spectrum of hydrogen and mercury atoms.
When the hydrogen atom is excited, say, buy an electric discharge or buy heat, it really emits the
absorbed energy only at certain colors of the visible spectrum.
It's shown with one line.
There is no continuity in the emission.
The same thing happens with Mercury, which, however, shows to have several more emission spectral
lines than hydrogen, indicating the fact that mercury in the mercury atom must be much more complicated
and complex than hydrogen.
Therefore, the analogy between these discrete spectral lines and energy states of atoms withstanding
waves which exist only for a specific frequency and wavelength inside a cavity is not too far fetched.
But a clear understanding how these spectra come into being had to wait at least another another 70
years after cursus and balloons and observations.
The second hypothesis Plank introduced was that let's consider not all the modes as being equally probable.
This wasn't a new idea either, since it was already considered by the Austrian physicist Ludwig Boltzmann
and who is well known for his contribution in the field of statistical physics, according to Bozman,
for blackbirding thermal equilibrium, which again means at constant temperature, the probability to
find a mode with a certain energy will be smaller.
The smaller, the greater this energy is.
According to this hypothesis, which postpunk described in a mathematical precise manner, there are
much more modes with lower energy than those with higher ones.
The energy of the cavity is therefore no longer distributed equally, equally on all modes.
But according to a law which is called the Boltzmann distribution law.
However, the decisive the decisive difference between the idea of Plank and that of Boltzmann was that
the former introduced the hypothesis which replaced the arbitrary energy values e with the above disco
described quantized once e and the probability to find modes with energy n plus one is smaller than
finding those with energy n.
Also in this model for an increasing number in the energy of the mold increases too, but the probability
to find such molds becomes also increasing increasingly smaller.
At this point, it becomes also clear why there could be no ultraviolet catastrophe.
The probability to find modes of increasing high energy after a certain point, after a certain GNR
becomes so vanishingly small that for any practical purpose we can consider it to be zero.
Emote with increasing N becomes increasingly improbable.
And by the way, with an exponential law, Muslem one, I must say that is the probability to find Mode's
with higher energy decreases increasingly fast.
If you let me put it in this way, which also entails that if we add up all the energies of the infinite
number of modes, the sum, even if it has an infinite number of term terms, will turn out nevertheless
to be infinite amount of energy.
It is what in mathematics one calls a convergent, a convergent Sirius.
Or, to put it another way, an infinitely high energy mode has an infinitely small probability to exist.
That is, there could not.
Exist any mode with infinite energy and therefore the total energy in the cavity stays infinite.
Nothing explodes in an infinite blast of energy.
And finally, the universe is safe.
Moreover, Plank's great achievement was not only that to avoid catastrophic infinities in the calculations,
but also to be able to furnish a precise formula which correctly describes the black body radiation
we observe in nature, he made again all the calculations that Boltzmann already did, but with the
decisive modifications that replaced the continuous energy function with a quantized one.
By doing so, he obtained an expression which nicely describes the energy density of the electron electromagnetic
radiation spectrum of a black body with temperature T and any given wavelength lambda or frequency no.
The famous Planck's formula for the black body radiation.
In this graph on the horizontal axis, the axis, the wave length of a body is given by the vertical
axis, the ordinate represents the intensity of the electromagnetic electromagnetic radiation it emits
in arbitrary units.
The units of the intensity would be a bit cumbersome to explain you.
And but this is not really relevant.
Just imagine a higher intensity going upwards.
Each curve on the graph represents a body with a specific temperature, the black the black curve represents
that of a body for 5000 degrees Kelvin and is calculated with the classical physics.
As one can see the divergence quickly for smaller wavelengths, it leads to the ultraviolet catastrophe.
It is the formula of ryley genes, whereas the blue curve represents the radiation of the body was the
same temperature, but this time calculated by taking into account that energy is absorbed in quanta
and into oscillation modes with energy states of different probabilities, according to Blancs idea.
You can see that apart from concealing the divergence.
It has a maximum peak at about zero point six micrometers, it's 600 nanometres, which corresponds
more or less to the yellow color.
In fact, the surface of our sun has a temperature of about five thousand two hundred Celsius and as
well known, appears to have a yellow color.
A couple of other curves for the radiation of what is at 4000 Kelvin and 3000 Kelvin are shown also
as well.
Note how the colder the body, the more shifted towards large wavelengths is its maximum.
Therefore, hot bodies tend to radiate in higher frequencies, the main frequency domains, that is,
they tend to radiate more blue or become eventually even ultraviolet, whereas cold bodies tend more
towards the visible or infrared light.
If a body becomes white, this only means that it has become so hot that it radiates strongly in any
or several wavelengths because as well known, when all colors are mixed up together, the resultant
color appears as white.
That is the reason, which, by the way, makes it also clear how, strictly speaking, white isn't
physically, physically a color as black isn't either.
Planck's theory solves the problem of the ultraviolet catastrophe, and this was also confirmed experimentally,
measuring the radiation emitted by different bodies at different temperature.
For those interested in the mathematical description here, I add only for completeness.
Also, the formulas which describe the Riley Riley genes curve and which leads to the ultraviolet catastrophe
and the Planck formula, which turns out to be without divergences and is the correct one.
You is the energy density like the Boltzmann constant, a universal constant that appears in thermodynamics?
C is the speed of light and obviously age no end to the blanks constant the frequency of the electromagnetic
radiation and the temperature, respectively.
I added this just only for illustrative purposes for those who might be curious about it.
If you do not understand these formulas, it does not matter.
We won't need it anyway.
So one interesting fact is that since the spectrographs do not depend from the type of material, but
only from its temperature, which gave astronomers also a great tool for measuring the temperature of
distant stars, for example, there is no need to reach physically a star light years away with a thermometer,
a physical thermometer.
We have just to measure its spectral curve and we will know its temperature just by fitting it with
a Blancs equation.
For instance, this graph shows the spectrum of the solar radiation, it does not appear so smooth as
the preceding graph, but this is only because it is measured through the Earth's atmosphere.
We can see how the solar spectrum is absorbed by the molecules that make up the atmosphere itself and
produce some sort of pick holes in the spectrum.
Why the theoretical black body radiation fits well, the measured curve of the sun at the top of the
atmosphere at the sea level.
There are these holes, so-called absorb absorption bands, corresponding to several kinds of molecules,
typically water or carbon dioxide molecules, with this kind of observations and experimental analysis,
also the determination of the chemical composition of stars or other distant objects that cannot be
analyzed directly on place became possible.
The black body radiation was also confirmed much later about the end of the 1960s on a cosmic scale.
In fact, we can conceive also the whole universe as a single body or if you prefer, a cavity, which
country contains a sea of electromagnetic radiation and matter like every every other object to.
According to the Big Bang Theory, the universe once came into being at extremely high temperatures
by a huge explosion about thirteen point seven billions of years ago, expanded and cooled down with
a thought with time passing by.
But as a whole, it can still be considered as a body with some temperature, which must contain a radiation,
just like in the case of the cavity, the so-called cosmic background radiation into which we can associate
a temperature.
So the question arises naturally, if that the spectrum of the cosmic background radiation fallout follows
also the bell shaped Planck spectrum.
Does it?
Well, the answer came by measuring radio waves with radio telescopes from the ground and later confirmed
with much more precise measurements on board of satellites free from the atmospheric atmospheric absorption.
The result?
The results are visible here.
And you can see the cosmic microwave background spectrum measured by the Colbie satellite.
You can see how there is an almost perfect match between the measured, measured flux coming from the
universe and the calculated and that calculated for a body with two point seven Kelvin temperature where
the units here are in frequency, it is about wavelengths percent matter.
If one knows how many times a wavelength fits into a centimeter and knows the speed of light, one can
infer from that the frequency and the intensity is given in mega Jansky past Erdogan that is about 10
to the power minus 20.
That for a solid angle unit.
OK, just on the up side there you have the frequency and the ordinate, the vertical axis.
Just imagine an intensity.
So the universe is a very cold place.
Because it's it has a temperature of about two point seven Kelvin, which is about almost more than
270 degrees Celsius under below zero, but still it is not at absolute zero temperature.
Just for curiosity, here you see the map of the overall structure of the universe inferred from the
cosmic background radiation and more precisely from its fluctuations, from the ideal Planck spectrum.
These ripples and tiny inner modernities represent the small departure from perfect homogeneity of matter
and energy.
These distributions, these observations confirmed Planck theory, which can be considered one of the
greatest triumphs of the physics of the last century.
It makes also clear how Boltzmann was incredibly near to the solution.
What would he have replaced?
The continuous energy function with a discrete, valued one?
In his own mathematical theory, all Planck's merits and fame would have been his instead.
This shows also how sometimes very simple but subtle intuitions could change the history of science,
leading to a great paradigm shift.
So the most important message of this lecture on the black body radiation and that we will have to keep
in mind throughout is that we must surrender to the idea and fact that according to quantum mechanics
energy and we will see later also other physical quantities as well, seems to come up in form of these
chunks and packets or quanta of energy.
Energy is absorbed or emitted only in discrete quantum amounts.
By Metro Metro, it absorbs and emits it in form of quantum energy is therefore a quantized physical
quantity.
One use to say this fact became the conceptual foundation on which all modern quantum physics is based
on, and that will follow us.
And in all the coming lectures to that is, after all, where the name quantum mechanics or quantum
physics or quantum theory comes from.
With Plank's achievement, quantum physics was finally born.